https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0956053X21004815
Abstract
The rapid economic and social development has led to a rapid increase in the output of domestic waste. How to realize waste classification through intelligent methods has become a key factor for human beings to achieve sustainable development. Traditional waste classification technology has low efficiency and low accuracy. To improve the efficiency and accuracy of waste classification processing, this paper proposes a DenseNet169 waste image classification model based on transfer learning. Because of the disadvantages of the existing public waste dataset, such as uneven distribution of data, single background, obvious features, and small sample size of the waste image, the waste image dataset NWNU-TRASH is constructed. The dataset has the advantages of balanced distribution, high diversity, and rich background, which is more in line with real needs. 70% of the dataset is used as the training set and 30% as the test set. Based on the deep learning network DenseNet169 pre-trained model, we can form a DenseNet169 model suitable for this experimental dataset. The experimental results show that the accuracy of classification is over 82% in the DenseNet169 model after the transfer learning, which is better than other image classification algorithms.

https://www.mdpi.com/2071-1050/14/12/7222
Abstract: 
The proper handling of waste is one of the biggest challenges of modern society. Municipal Solid Waste (MSW) requires categorization into a number of types, including bio, plastic, glass, metal, paper, etc. The most efficient techniques proposed by researchers so far include neural networks. In
this paper, a detailed summarization was made of the existing deep learning techniques that have been proposed to classify waste. This paper proposes an architecture for the classification of litter into the categories specified in the benchmark approaches. The architecture used for classification
was EfficientNet-B0. These are compound-scaling based models proposed by Google that are pretrained on ImageNet and have an accuracy of 74% to 84% in top-1 over ImageNet. This research proposes EfficientNet-B0 model tuning for images specific to particular demographic regions for efficient classification. This type of model tuning over transfer learning provides a customized model
for classification, highly optimized for a particular region. It was shown that such a model had comparable accuracy to that of EfficientNet-B3, however, with a significantly smaller number of parameters required by the B3 model. Thus, the proposed technique achieved efficiency on the order of 4X in terms of FLOPS. Moreover, it resulted in improvised classifications as a result of fine-tuning over region-wise specific litter images

https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-030-19651-6_41
Abstract
The management of solid waste in large urban environments has become a complex problem due to increasing amount of waste generated every day by citizens and companies. Current Computer Vision and Deep Learning techniques can help in the automatic detection and classification of waste types for further recycling tasks. In this work, we use the TrashNet dataset to train and compare different deep learning architectures for automatic classification of garbage types. In particular, several Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) architectures were compared: VGG, Inception and ResNet. The best classification results were obtained using a combined Inception-ResNet model that achieved 88.6% of accuracy. These are the best results obtained with the considered dataset.

https://dl.acm.org/doi/fullHtml/10.1145/3574318.3574345
Abstract
Waste Management is important for humans as well as nature for healthy life and a clean environment. The major step for effective waste management is the segregation of waste according to its types. The advancement of technology such as hardware and artificial intelligence is used for the segregation of waste. There are several machine learning and deep learning algorithms available for image classification. Among them, Convolutional Neural Network is the most used one. The main objective of this work is to classify images of waste materials using CNN into seven categories (cardboard, glass, metal, organic, paper, plastic, and trash). Then, cardboard, organic, and paper class images are considered biodegradable waste, and other classes are considered non-biodegradable waste. The pre-trained CNN model such as InceptionV3, InceptionResNetV2, Xception, VGG19, MobileNet, ResNet50 and DenseNet201 have been trained and performed fine-tuning on the waste dataset. Among these models, the VGG19 model performed with less accuracy, whereas the InceptionV3 model performed with high learning accuracy. Overall, the obtained result is promising.